---
layout: page
title: A roadmap for big data incorporating both the research roadmap and the policy roadmap
icon: research
permalink: Research/Publications/BYTE-D6-1
---

Stéphane Grumbach, Aurélien Faravelon, **Martí Cuquet**, Anna Fensel.  
[D6.1 BYTE Project](http://byte-project.eu/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/D6-1-BYTE-Policy-and-Research-roadmap_FINAL.pdf), 9 November 2016.

This document presents the BYTE big data roadmap to capture the economic,
social and ethical, legal and political benefits associated with the use of
big data in Europe. It provides the necessary policy and research actions
necessary to achieve the BYTE vision and guidelines to assist industry and
scientists to address externalities in order to improve innovation and
competitiveness and also incorporate the needs of civil society, NGOs and
other non-profit organisations.

The BYTE project is a multi-disciplinary study of the societal impacts of big
data in seven European sectors aimed to define a roadmap and create a
community that address and optimise these impacts.
The goal of the roadmap is to guide European policy and research efforts to
develop a socially responsible big data economy, and to allow stakeholders and
the big data community built around the BYTE project to identify and meet big
data challenges and proceed with a shared understanding of the societal
impact, positive and negative externalities and concrete problems worth
investigating in future programmes.

The roadmap is the culmination of a series of case studies, analysis, expert
focus groups and workshops conducted within the BYTE project. Positive and
negative big data externalities in economic, social and ethical, legal and
political areas have been observed and analysed in the seven initial sectors
considered in the case studies (crisis informatics, culture, energy,
environment, healthcare, maritime transportation and smart city), and further
extended to a total of 18 sectors via a literature review, to provide a set of
risks, opportunities and recommendations of best practices. The roadmap
results have been validated through two separate workshops focused on the
research and the policy parts.

The policy roadmap is structured around three priorities: data governance,
social good and big data infrastructure. For each priority, a set of
short-term actions to perform and a set of actions to accomplish by 2030 are
provided.

The research roadmap covers six areas —data management, data processing, data
analysis, data protection, data visualisation and non-technical priorities—
and a detailed timeframe of 5 years, which is also extended to include a mid-
(up to 2025) and a long-term (up to 2030) period, to address research topics
in each of these areas in order to deliver social impact, skills development
and standardisation. Finally, it also identifies what sectors will be most
benefited by each of the research efforts.

The present roadmap also foresees an annual deeper study of selected sectors
to be taken up initially by the BYTE project partners and community members,
and by the BYTE community alone after project completion. In this document, an
initial analysis of the specific policy and research needs is provided for the
environment, healthcare and smart city sectors selected for the first year.

~~~
@techreport{Grumbach2016_roadmap,
  author = {Grumbach, Stéphane and Faravelon, Aurélien and Cuquet, Martí and Fensel, Anna},
  title = {A roadmap for big data incorporating both the research roadmap and the policy roadmap},
  institution = {BYTE Project},
  month = nov,
  year = 2016,
  number = {D6.1},
  type = {Project deliverable},
}
~~~
